so a couple days ago I dropped a Twitter
thread yes I still call it Twitter and I
severely underestimated how many of you
guys would be interested in it but then
a lot of the conversation that I drove
was really interesting and a lot of
discussions that happened afterward were
fun to participate in so I figured I
would drop even more of the footage here
so I'm back with more of my footage and
clips from my visit to Apple's secret
iPhone durability testing Labs so if you
ever wondered how an iPhone gets water
resistance tested or drop tested or
shaken like crazy before it gets
announced on stage these are the labs
where all of that happens and then they
have to connect the dots between their
test results and how they actually build
phones which is fascinating so the first
thing that I saw was the water
resistance testing so I think a lot of
us kind of take for granted at this
point most high-end smartphones most
flagships have ip68 ratings but a lot of
people don't actually think about it
that that is a code where IP stands for
ingress protection and then the first
number is for solids and then the second
number is for liquids and so each of
these numbers gets higher and higher as
it's more protected against Ingress so
some like earbuds or headphones for
example you might see they are ipx4
rated that just means they're not
protected from dust but from water they
can withstand some light splashes from
any direction so sweat great so the
first iPhones all the way up to the
iPhone 6s were not water resistant at
all all at least not rated to be but
then the first water resistant iPhone
iPhone 7 was IP67 water resistant and
then now we just kind of we see
everything being ip68 meaning it can
literally be underwater for an extended
period of time and so this is what it
looks like to actually test that stuff
there's literally specialty equipment
just to torture phones with water and
make sure they can survive so lots of
lots of companies have these things but
it was cool to see it in person so the
lowest level of this test is basically a
drip ceiling to simulate rain and
splashing so there's no real water
pressure here but a pass is good for
ipx4 on this test but then to simulate
some water pressure they have these jets
that rotate around the device and spray
it with water from all angles into the
speakers into the earpiece into the
ports everything and if it's able to
pass this test that's good for ipx5 it
seems so simple but it's also pretty
cool to see I've never actually watched
this happen to turn it up to 11 they
they just put the phone on one end and
stick basically a literal fire hose on
the other end and just blast the phone
with high press water kind of looks
insane but if we want our modern
smartphones to be able to get splashed
from any angle many times over its
lifetime and survive then it has to
survive this and then it earns its ipx6
rating but then finally for ipx7 and ipx
8 that's full submersion so they have
some lockable sealed tanks but some of
you may already know that ipx8 is
supposed to be under deep water for a
long time so they actually have this
pressurized tank where they can turn up
the pressure inside to simulate
different water depths and leave phones
in there as long as they want so now
ideally today if you drop your phone in
the toilet or spill water on it or drop
it in a lake whatever for as long as
it's down there it should survive which
again we kind of take it for granted but
that's all the seals and the gaskets and
all the adhesives and things that go
into getting it to pass those tests are
what get it to pass the real world tests
now there is an entire separate type of
testing that you might have already seen
on YouTube that is drop testing and it
turns out Apple has been doing their own
internal drop testing for years now so
it turns out in the same building Apple
set up this full-on industrial robot by
Epson that they've programmed to be a
drop test robot and then they've set it
up in front of these ultra bright lights
and super high-speed Phantom cameras
pointed at the exact spot on the ground
where the phone will land so the idea
here is they can program the robot to
pick up the phone and drop it onto any
surface and then they can have it repeat
that exact motion and that exact same
drop on the exact same angle over and
over again but with different surfaces
and they can ab test them and take a
look at exactly what happened and then
those of you who are camera nerds you
already know these Phantom cameras are
pretty serious I don't remember the
exact frame rate they told me they were
shooting at but it's pretty incredible
you can actually see the titanium on
this iPhone 15 Pro wobble on its first
impact with the ground and it's second
impact too so yeah they had all kinds of
different materials to do drop tests
from granite countertops to Marble to
corkboard and wood Etc uh they even had
this massive block of asphalt just
sitting there just waiting to see how
the iPhone reacts to being dropped in
the streets you know but this is a
fascinating setup now of course the fact
is most phones still just break
immediately when you drop them on the
ground so I I kind of wonder how much of
this data is actually getting translated
into real changes of phone design but
it's still cool that I got to see all
this stuff and then the hardest one to
capture for me anyway is the shaking
tests yeah it's exactly what it sounds
like shaking tests Apple has rooms full
of machines that are literally trace of
devices strapped to a surface that's
being shaken thousands of times at a
specific spefic frequency it's actually
kind of hard to record because if my
shutter speed is at the right number it
doesn't even really look like anything's
moving kind of like how car wheels don't
look like they're spinning if you have
the right camera settings but I did get
a few Clips where like I put my hand on
it and you can see it's moving a lot
they're using this machine to try to
simulate years of wear and tear out in
the real world apparently they can
program in the frequency of a certain
motorcycle engine or car engine or
subway car or whatever constant
vibration that they just want to check
up on to make sure everything holds up
to exposure to it over a very long time
but I really think the most fascinating
thing about all this testing is they are
trying before the phone even comes out
they're trying to simulate years of wear
and tear in the real world with real
customers in a small room under the
basement of Apple park with like the
machines that they've designed it's a
it's a fascinating connection they've
got to make and I spoke to John turnis
who's the head of uh Hardware
engineering and apple about this process
and he mentioned apparently they go
through sometimes
10,000 iPhones prototypes before they
actually ship a final phone with all the
durability
testing which sounds crazy I don't know
what number I thought it was in my head
but it seems insane that they'll they'll
make 10,000 phones to break before they
ship one and actually while I had John
there I felt like this was a unique
opportunity to ask cuz I I've never
really heard people from Apple actually
speak out about the durability but also
the repairability of the iPhone phone
like we all know Apple's reputation for
repairability not great like the iPhone
is notoriously very difficult to repair
but also now it's a little clearer
because the more I've thought about it
the more it feels like I mean Apple's
just shown me a ton of durability labs
and durability feels like it's directly
at odds with repairability like it
actually feels like it it's basically a
sliding scale with durability on one
side and repairability on the other and
the more durable you want to make your
thing the less repairable you're making
your thing and all these decisions that
go into making and designing a product
are kind of pushing it back and forth
along this scale so take a listen to
this but sometimes for me I find it
helpful to kind of think about the book
ends like imagine a product that never
fails right that just doesn't fail yep
and on the other end a product that
maybe isn't very reliable but is super
easy to repair right product that never
fails is obviously better for the
customer it's better for the environment
okay it's interesting you put it that
way cuz on you have the product that
never fails on the other hand you have
the product that can be replaced
infinitely but it's not as reliable yep
that downside of being not as reliable
comes from being infinitely repairable
but I think someone would argue that the
downside of being really hard to repair
comes from being almost infinitely
durable sure but they're not they're not
always they're not always mutually
exclusive like those are kind of the
bookm so let me let me give you like a
couple of examples um I think of battery
on a on an iPhone as being an important
one on an iPhone on any phone a battery
is something if you want to extend the
life of the product that's something
that's going to need to be replaced
right batteries batteries wear out um
but if as we've been making iPhones for
a long time in the early days one of the
most common types of failures with water
Ingress right where you drop it in the
pool you you know spill your drink on it
and and the unit fails and so we've been
making strides over all those years to
get better and better and better in
terms of minimizing those failures and I
don't know how many years it's been now
but we got to a point of ip68 which is
kind of a rating for water Ingress which
is really impressive and I think you get
to see some of these tests right it's
and and it's great because we get these
stories of people you know literally I
dropped my phone in the lake I couldn't
get it for two weeks I fished it out it
still works they're super excited that
said to to get the product there you've
got to design a lot of seals adhesives
other things to make it perform that way
which makes it a little harder to do
that battery repair right you still need
to do the battery repair so we need to
make sure we have solution for customers
to do that which we do um but it's
objectively better for the customer to
to have that reliability and it's
ultimately better for the planet because
the failure rates since we got to that
point have just dropped they just
plummeted right the number of repairs
that need to happen and every time
you're doing a repair you're bringing in
new materials you know to replace
whatever broke so you can actually do
the math and figure out there's a
threshold at which if I can make it this
durable then it's better to have it a
little bit harder to repair cuz it's
going to net out head so yeah that
checks out I found that kind of
interesting that we've never really
heard anyone from Apple speak directly
about this now of course in a dream
world if Apple's goal is to make the
ultimate phone that never ever breaks
then they probably shouldn't be making
it from glass because in the words of J
RG everything glass is glass glass
breaks but still they're trying to push
as far towards that end as possible and
it is interesting to hear a little bit
of the behind the scenes on the
philosophy there but yeah that's that's
been it that's my behind the scenes look
at Apple's durability testing Labs that
we've never seen before make sure you
subscribe to see more stuff very cool
like this coming up soon and let me know
what you think about this sliding scale
of durability versus repair catch you
guys in the next one peace